Open cmd and type 'git'.If successfully installed, it ll show list of options of various git commands.
Now set the username and email id by typing the below in 
cmd prompt-> (no need for any specific path, just open cmd and type the below:)

C:\Users\D>git config --global user.name "TAruna-SP"

C:\Users\D>git config --global user.email "writetoarunathangavel@gmail.com"

create a repo in github and clone it in your  local
git clone repolink
(how to get repolink? - There is a "code" button and when you clikc  it it shows HTtps url and copy it"

git status - will show any new files to be added to github
git add newfilename - file gets added to Staging Area
git commit -m "somecomment" - when you commit, it ll move to git copy folder inside your local computer

NOW yuo need to push it to github repo to see the added files in github repo using the below:
git push origin main

origin refers to the repo link
main refers to under the repo link, there is this main branch
so move my files to this "main" branch under the repo link/folder.

flow is INSERT->ADD->COMMIT->PUSH

Before adding to staging Area(or when we just created a new file) - U
after adding to staging area(or after using git add )- A
once you commit, "A" gets vanushed

if we modified a file, it shows "M".NOw to move it to github as usual
git add filename
git commit -m "msg"
git push origin main

if we deleted a file,as usual
git add deletedfilename   ( so add basically means perform the operation done on the file )
got commit -m "msg"
git push origin main
now you dont see the deleted msg there

if you cerated a new file in github, how to dowmload it in ur local
git pull  (this brings all the new files whihc are not in your local fro repo)

similarly if any file is modified in repo, when we do git pull, we ll get those changes into our local.

............................................................

now you have project in local, and you want to start the process from local..

a folder you have right ..prj folder
navigate in terminal and type 
git init - thi creates a .git file inside your prj folder and ll mark all files as "U" untracked
now add thm to staging area by:
git add .  
(why because when we have large number of files, we cant specify each and every  file name so a dot)
now all files added to staging area

now git commit -m "cmt msg"

now if you do git push origin main - it ll show errro as no origin because, there is no reference to it fromthis folder right.
so create a repo in github newly. now connect this repo to this folder in local by below:

git remote add origin https://github.com/TAruna-SP/TicketShow.git
(you can find this link when you creted the repo)

now your local is connected to this origin or the repo link
we added the origin, but we need to know the branch name..previosuly from github itself we got to know as "main"
here we dont know, so type

git branch
it ll show master

now you can do 
git push origin master

OR
chnage this master name to main and type your old cmd as usual
git branch -M main

now if you put git ush origin main
all chnages ll get reflected there

..................................................................................................
Branching

if you see "TicketSHow" it shows 1 branch and it is nothing but "main" branch.
if you want to create another branch under this origin - TicketShow , you can click on the dropdown button whihc shows branch name and create.

now if you see in local by 
git branch -a 
it ll not get relflected there .so what you do , do a 
git pull
and then git branch -a
it ll show list of branches created under this origin

....switch to branch
if you want to work on another barnch, 
git checkout anotherbranchname
and type 
git branch -a
it ll show * near the current branch


now if you careted a new file, do git add . and then git commit, and finally
git push origin newbranchname

now if you see the chnages ll get pushed only to your desired branch and not on the other branch.
you can confirm this by 
git checkout main   (the older branch) and see if newly added files are there and go to another barnch by
git checkout newbranch 9yu can only see teh chnages here)

usually main branch is common and peole working in team will create a branch from this main branch and do their wrok
after completion, they ll move theri work to main branch.
to do this, what they do is

git checkout main  (you are inside main branhc)
git diff newbranch (see the diffrence between ur brahc and main branch)
it ll show the new files

now merge these chnages to main branch
git merge newbranch

you can see changes in your local, but cannot in github because you didnt psh yet.
git push origin main

............................................................
let see about pull requests

create a branch in ternimal

git branch newbranchname

and seethe list of branches

git branch -a

now switch to the newly created branch.
how to switch...using checkout

git checkout newbranch
nd confirm the same using 
git branch -a to see the *

now yu created a file in your new branch and pushed it to your new branch.
now you can see the created branchc in github ( remember yu created this branch from terminal in vscode, even after that
when you push, yu can see the branch there)

now, you want to pipsh ur chnages to main.
but most of times, yu dont have permission to cpush direclty to main frim your branch
so you need to gie a pull request to show that i need a change to be pushed to main frm my branch


go to "pull request" in menu bar, click on it
selet the "base" as main and the other branch as the brnahc from whihc you want to move your chnage
and then do sumit or somthings.done.

from the person who manages the "main ranch" - he receives a pullr equest in his menu.
he open and clikc the 'merge" button.

.................................................................
resolving conflicts

create a new repo and create a file with city as None (this llby default be under "main" brangc)
now create another branch from main and edit the city as Bangalore
now create another branch frm the above branch or main and edit city as Chennai

now the two persons are coming to merge their chnages to main.
one has city as chennai, one has city as bangalore.
this us called conflict and ow to resolve it

first person1 do a pull request and submiit it
The owner see the pull request he received and the page shows "NO conflict". so jhe goes on "merge" button and
chnages are moved to main branch

now second person comes and do the pull request fro his chnage  to merge to main
the owner see the pull request and seee it as conflict and see a buyyon "Resolve conflict"

he clikc on that. and MANUALLY EDIT the file and keep one option as city:Bangalore and clikc  "Mark as Resolved".
Then clikc "commit mergre" and the page refreshes and finalyy shws "Merge pull request" (as no conflicts there) button clikc on it 
and do "confirm merge"

if yu see the file in main branch, yu can see the chnage yu manually did.

......................................................
overall...
create a repo...create 2 additional branches in addition to main .
clone the origin url
come to vscode
inside a folder, do git clone origin url
see the current branch and list of branches using
git branch -a

move to one person branch with 
git checkout branch1
make chnages,commt and push to branch1
(here withot an pull requests, lets merge to main)

now git checkout main
see the diff with branch1
git diff branch1
git merge branch1
git push origin main...chnages reflected to main.

now second person comes to start work, first person has already made some chnages.so he need to do
first he need to switch to his branch with
git checkout hisbranch
update his branch with latest using
git pull 
(pull default downloads code from the current branch wherer it is now)
so to pull from main, yu need to do 
git pull origin main (if already inside main, just git pull is fine)
